Add document for BGPPolicy (#6524)
antrea-io/antrea: docs/bgp-policy.md

  - [LocalASN](#localasn)
  - [ListenPort](#listenport)
  - [Advertisements](#advertisements)
  - [BGPPeers](#bgppeers)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
  - [Combined Advertisements of Service, Pod, and Egress IPs](#combined-advertisements-of-service-pod-and-egress-ips)
  - [Advertise Egress IPs to external BGP peers with more than one hops](#advertise-egress-ips-to-external-bgp-peers-with-more-than-one-hops)
- [Limitations](#limitations)
<!-- /toc -->

## What is BGPPolicy?

`BGPPolicy` is a custom resource that allows users to initialize BGP process on selected Kubernetes Nodes and advertise
Service IPs, Pod IPs, and Egress IPs to remote BGP peers.

## Prerequisites

BGPPolicy was introduced in Antrea v2.1 as an alpha feature. A feature gate, `BGPPolicy` must be enabled on antrea-agent
in the `antrea-config` ConfigMap for the feature to work, like the following:

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: antrea-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  antrea-agent.conf: |
    featureGates:
      BGPPolicy: true
```

## The BGPPolicy resource

A BGPPolicy in Kubernetes is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) object. Like all CRD objects, you can POST a BGPPolicy

> definition to the API server to create a new instance, facilitating the integration of Kubernetes cluster with external

Author: Done

Kubernetes Nodes and advertise various IPs (Service IPs, Pod IPs, and Egress IPs) to remote BGP peers, facilitating
the integration of Kubernetes cluster with external BGP-enabled network.

> The following specification creates a BGPPolicy object. This policy starts the BGP process with ASN 64512, listening on

Reviewer: specification -> manifest ?

port 179, on Nodes labeled with `bgp=enabled`. It advertises ClusterIPs, LoadBalancerIPs, and ExternalIPs to a BGP peer
at IP 192.168.77.200, which has ASN 65001 and listens on port 179:

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: example-bgp-policy
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:
      ipTypes:
        - ClusterIP
        - ExternalIP
        - LoadBalancerIP
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.77.200
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
```

### NodeSelector

> The `nodeSelector` field specifies which Kubernetes Nodes the BGPPolicy applies to based on the labels specified. The

Reviewer: specifies -> selects? (as you have another "specified" at the end)

Or change "the labels specified" to "Node labels".

field is mandatory.

**Note**: If multiple BGPPolicy objects select the same Node, the effective BGPPolicy will be chosen randomly.

### LocalASN

> The `localASN` field defines the Autonomous System Number (ASN) the local BGP process uses. The available private ASN

Reviewer: that the local BGP...

range is `64512-65535`. The field is mandatory.

### ListenPort

The `listenPort` field specifies the port on which the BGP process listens. The default value is 179. The valid port
range is `1-65535`.

### Advertisements

The `advertisements` field configures which IPs are advertised to BGP peers.

- `service`: Specifies how to advertise Service IPs. The `ipTypes` field lists the types of Service IPs to be advertised,

>   including `ClusterIP`, `ExternalIP`, and `LoadBalancerIP`.

Reviewer: including -> which can be

> - `pod`: Specifies how to advertise Pod IPs. Currently, only the Node IPAM Pod CIDR can be advertised by setting `pod:{}`.

Reviewer: CIDR -> CIDRs

> - `egress`: Specifies how to advertise Egress IPs. Currently, all Egress IPs can be advertised by setting `egress:{}`.

Reviewer: can -> will

Maybe remove "Currently"

### BGPPeers

The `bgpPeers` field lists the BGP peers to which the advertisements are sent.

> - `address`: The IP address on which the BGP peer listens.

Reviewer: "the IP address of the BGP peer"?

- `asn`: The Autonomous System Number of the BGP peer.
- `port`: The port number on which the BGP peer listens. The default value is 179.
- `multihopTTL`: The Time To Live (TTL) value used in BGP packets sent to the BGP peer, with a range of 1 to 255.
  The default value is 1.
- `gracefulRestartTimeSeconds`: Specifies how long the BGP peer waits for the BGP session to re-establish after a
  restart before deleting stale routes, with a range of 1 to 3600 seconds. The default value is 120 seconds.

## Usage examples

### Combined Advertisements of Service, Pod, and Egress IPs

> In this example, we will advertise ClusterIP and LoadBalancerIP types of Service IPs, Pod CIDR, and Egress IPs from the

Reviewer: Pod CIDRs

selected Nodes to multiple remote BGP peers.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: advertise-all-ips
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:
      ipTypes:
        - ClusterIP
        - LoadBalancerIP
    pod: {}
    egress: {}
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.77.200
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
    - address: 192.168.77.201
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
```

> ### Advertise Egress IPs to external BGP peers more than one hop

Reviewer: with more than one hops

In this example, we configure the BGPPolicy to advertise Egress IPs from selected Nodes to a remote BGP peer located
multiple hops away from the cluster. It's crucial to set the `multihopTTL` to a value equal to or greater than the
number of hops, allowing BGP packets to traverse multiple hops to reach the peer.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: advertise-all-egress-ips
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    egress: {}
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.78.201
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
      multihopTTL: 2
```

## Limitations

- The routes received from remote BGP peers will not be installed. Therefore, you must ensure that the path from Pods
  to the remote BGP network is properly configured and routable. This involves configuring your network infrastructure
  to handle the routing of traffic between your Kubernetes cluster and the remote BGP network.

> - Only Linux Nodes are supported. Though it could theoretically possible work in Windows Nodes, it is not validated on

Reviewer: Though -> Although

Remove "possible".

>   Windows yet.

Reviewer: Probably change to "The feature has been validated on Windows Nodes, though theoretically it can work with Windows.

Author: Done

> - IPv6 BGP peers are not supported in Windows because antrea-agent doesn't support IPv6.

Reviewer: on Windows Nodes

antrea-agent does not support IPv6 on Windows

definition to the API server to create a new instance. This CRD allows users to initiate the BGP process on selected
Kubernetes Nodes and advertise various IPs (Service IPs, Pod IPs, and Egress IPs) to remote BGP peers, facilitating
the integration of Kubernetes cluster with external BGP-enabled network.

The following specification creates a BGPPolicy object. This policy starts the BGP process with ASN 64512, listening on
port 179, on Nodes labeled with `bgp=enabled`. It advertises ClusterIPs, LoadBalancerIPs, and ExternalIPs to a BGP peer
at IP 192.168.77.200, which has ASN 65001 and listens on port 179:

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: example-bgp-policy
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:
      ipTypes:
        - ClusterIP
        - ExternalIP
        - LoadBalancerIP
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.77.200
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
```

### NodeSelector

The `nodeSelector` field specifies which Kubernetes Nodes the BGPPolicy applies to based on the labels specified. If

> `nodeSelector` is empty, no Node will be selected. The field is mandatory.

Author: No. I have removed `If nodeSelector` is empty, no Node will be selected. `

**Note**: If multiple BGPPolicy objects select a Node, the effective one will be chosen randomly.

### LocalASN

The `localASN` field defines the Autonomous System Number (ASN) the local BGP process uses. The available private ASN
range is 64512-65535. The field is mandatory.

### ListenPort

> The `listenPort` field specifies the port on which the BGP process listens. The default value is 179.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `listenPort` field specifies the port on which the BGP process listens. The default value is 179.
The valid port range is `1-65535`.
```

  The default value is 1.
- `gracefulRestartTimeSeconds`: Specifies how long the BGP peer waits for the BGP session to re-establish after a
  restart before deleting stale routes, with a range of 1 to 3600 seconds. The default value is 120 seconds.

## Usage examples

### Combined Advertisements of Service, Pod, and Egress IPs

In this example, we will advertise ClusterIP and LoadBalancerIP types of Service IPs, Pod CIDR, and Egress IPs from the
selected Nodes to multiple remote BGP peers.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: advertise-all-ips
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:
      ipTypes:
        - ClusterIP
        - LoadBalancerIP
    pod: {}
    egress: {}
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.77.200
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
    - address: 192.168.77.201
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
```

### Advertise Egress IPs to external BGP peers more than one hop

In this example, we configure the BGPPolicy to advertise Egress IPs from selected Nodes to a remote BGP peer that is

> more than one hop away from the cluster. It's crucial to set the multihopTTL to a value greater than 1, which allows BGP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
more than one hop away from the cluster. It's crucial to set the `multihopTTL` to a value greater than 1, which allows BGP
```

packets to traverse multiple hops to reach the peer.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:

>   name: advertise-all-ips

Reviewer 2: renamed to `advertise-all-egress-ips`?

Author: Done

spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:
      ipTypes:
        - ClusterIP
        - LoadBalancerIP

>     pod: {}

Reviewer 2: Since you mentioned to advertise `Egress IPs` but no others, these should be removed?

Author: Done

    egress: {}
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.78.201
      asn: 65001
      port: 179

>       multihopTTL: 2

Reviewer 2: Will any value greater than 1 work? or it has to be greater than the hops between BGP peers?

Author: No, it should be equal to or greater than the number of hops. I have updated this.

```

## Limitations

- The routes received from remote BGP peers will not be installed. Therefore, you must ensure that the path from Pods
  to the remote BGP network is properly routable. This involves configuring your network infrastructure to handle the
  routing of traffic between your Kubernetes cluster and the remote BGP network.

> - IPv6 BGP peer is not supported in Windows.

Reviewer 2: Is IPv4 BGP on Windows supported now? is this a kind of limitation because of goBGP?

Author: Because antrea-agent doesn't support IPv6 and gobgp cannot listen on IPv6.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: advertise-all-ips
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:
      ipTypes:
        - ClusterIP
        - LoadBalancerIP
    pod: {}
    egress: {}
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.77.200
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
    - address: 192.168.77.201
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
```

### Advertise Egress IPs to external BGP peers with more than one hops

In this example, we configure the BGPPolicy to advertise Egress IPs from selected Nodes to a remote BGP peer located
multiple hops away from the cluster. It's crucial to set the `multihopTTL` to a value equal to or greater than the
number of hops, allowing BGP packets to traverse multiple hops to reach the peer.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: advertise-all-egress-ips
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    egress: {}
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.78.201
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
      multihopTTL: 2
```

## Limitations

> - Only an IPv4 address can be used as the BGP Identifier (BGP router ID). For IPv4-only or dual-stack Kubernetes clusters,

Reviewer: I feel this not a limitation, but about how router ID is configured? Suggest moving to a separate "BGP router ID" section.
And probably revise the sentence to "Antrea uses an IPv4 address as the BGP Identifier (BGP router ID)".

Author: Done

# BGPPolicy

## Table of Contents

<!-- toc -->
- [What is BGPPolicy?](#what-is-bgppolicy)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [The BGPPolicy resource](#the-bgppolicy-resource)
  - [NodeSelector](#nodeselector)
  - [LocalASN](#localasn)
  - [ListenPort](#listenport)
  - [Advertisements](#advertisements)
  - [BGPPeers](#bgppeers)
- [BGP router ID](#bgp-router-id)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
  - [Combined Advertisements of Service, Pod, and Egress IPs](#combined-advertisements-of-service-pod-and-egress-ips)
  - [Advertise Egress IPs to external BGP peers with more than one hops](#advertise-egress-ips-to-external-bgp-peers-with-more-than-one-hops)
- [Limitations](#limitations)
<!-- /toc -->

## What is BGPPolicy?

> `BGPPolicy` is a custom resource that allows users to initialize BGP process on selected Kubernetes Nodes and advertise

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`BGPPolicy` is a custom resource that allows users to run a BGP process on selected Kubernetes Nodes and advertise
```

> Service IPs, Pod IPs, and Egress IPs to remote BGP peers, facilitating the integration of Kubernetes cluster with external

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Service IPs, Pod IPs, and Egress IPs to remote BGP peers, facilitating the integration of Kubernetes workloads with an external
```

BGP-enabled network.

## Prerequisites

BGPPolicy was introduced in Antrea v2.1 as an alpha feature. A feature gate, `BGPPolicy` must be enabled on antrea-agent
in the `antrea-config` ConfigMap for the feature to work, like the following:

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: antrea-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  antrea-agent.conf: |
    featureGates:
      BGPPolicy: true
```

## The BGPPolicy resource

A BGPPolicy in Kubernetes is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) object. Like all CRD objects, you can POST a BGPPolicy

> definition to the API server to create a new instance.

Reviewer 3: I don't think the second sentences adds much value?

> The following manifest creates a BGPPolicy object. It can start BGP process with ASN `64512`, listening on port `179`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following manifest creates a BGPPolicy object. It will start a BGP process with ASN `64512`, listening on port `179`,
```

on Nodes labeled with `bgp=enabled`. The process will advertise ClusterIPs, LoadBalancerIPs, and ExternalIPs to a BGP
peer at IP address `192.168.77.200`, which has ASN `65001` and listens on port `179`:

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: example-bgp-policy
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:
      ipTypes:
        - ClusterIP
        - ExternalIP

>         - LoadBalancerIP

Reviewer 3: nit: I think it would be more concise / readable to use `ipTypes: [ClusterIP, ExternalIP, LoadBalancerIP]`

  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.77.200
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
```

### NodeSelector

The `nodeSelector` field selects which Kubernetes Nodes the BGPPolicy applies to based on the Node labels. The field is
mandatory.

**Note**: If multiple BGPPolicy objects select the same Node, the effective BGPPolicy will be chosen randomly.

### LocalASN

The `localASN` field defines the Autonomous System Number (ASN) that the local BGP process uses. The available private
ASN range is `64512-65535`. The field is mandatory.

### ListenPort

The `listenPort` field specifies the port on which the BGP process listens. The default value is 179. The valid port
range is `1-65535`.

### Advertisements

The `advertisements` field configures which IPs are advertised to BGP peers.

- `service`: Specifies how to advertise Service IPs. The `ipTypes` field lists the types of Service IPs to be advertised,

>   which can be `ClusterIP`, `ExternalIP`, and `LoadBalancerIP`.

Reviewer 3: s/which can be/which can include

> - `pod`: Specifies how to advertise Pod IPs. The Node IPAM Pod CIDRs will be advertised by setting `pod:{}`.

Reviewer 3: just to confirm: IP addresses allocated to Pod with Flexible IPAM will not be advertised?

I think it would be good to call it out explicitly.

Author: >  IP addresses allocated to Pod with Flexible IPAM will not be advertised? 

Yes,  currently, we only advertise the Node IPAM CIDR, not specific IPs allocated from Node IPAM.

- `egress`: Specifies how to advertise Egress IPs. All Egress IPs will be advertised by setting `egress:{}`.

> 

Reviewer 3: I think the following information is important and should be included in the above list items:
- a Node will only advertise its local Pod CIDR
- a Node will only advertise Egress IPs which are local (i.e, assigned to the Node)
- For Service IPs, things are more complex:
    - all ClusterIPs are advertised by the Node
    - all ExternalIPs / LoadbalancerIPs can be advertised by the Node, but we respect `externalTrafficPolicy` (if `externalTrafficPolicy` is set to `Local`, the Node will only advertise IPs for which there is at least one local Endpoint)

Please validate my understanding but I think this information should be included.

Reviewer 3: By the way, for the `ClusterIP` type, I am not sure what the intended behavior is with respect to `externalTrafficPolicy`.

Author: Your understanding is totally correct. I will append it to the chapter.

### BGPPeers

The `bgpPeers` field lists the BGP peers to which the advertisements are sent.

- `address`: The IP address of the BGP peer.
- `asn`: The Autonomous System Number of the BGP peer.
- `port`: The port number on which the BGP peer listens. The default value is 179.
- `multihopTTL`: The Time To Live (TTL) value used in BGP packets sent to the BGP peer, with a range of 1 to 255.
  The default value is 1.
- `gracefulRestartTimeSeconds`: Specifies how long the BGP peer waits for the BGP session to re-establish after a
  restart before deleting stale routes, with a range of 1 to 3600 seconds. The default value is 120 seconds.

## BGP router ID

> Only an IPv4 address can be used as the BGP Identifier (BGP router ID). For IPv4-only or dual-stack Kubernetes clusters,

Reviewer: Consider changing the first sentence to: "BGP Identifier (BGP router ID) can only be a 32 bits value. Antrea uses an IPv4 address as the BGP router ID."

the Node's IPv4 address is used as the BGP router ID, ensuring uniqueness. For IPv6-only Kubernetes clusters without a
Node IPv4 address, the router ID must be specified in the Node annotation `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id`. If the

> annotation is not present, an IPv4 address will be generated by hashing the Node name and updated to the annotation.

Reviewer 3: s/updated/updating

> If the annotation is present, its value will be used as the BGP router ID.

Reviewer 3: I find this paragraph a bit clumsy, so I would suggest the following:

The BGP router identifier (ID) is a 4-byte field that is usually set to an IPv4 address.
Antrea uses the following steps to choose the BGP router ID:
1. If the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id`annotations is present on the Node and its value is a valid 32-bit integer, we will use the provided value.
2. Otherwise, for an IPv4-only or dual-stack Kubernetes cluster, the Node's IPv4 address (assigned to the transport interface) is used.
3. Otherwise, for IPv6-only clusters, a 32-bit integer will be generated by hashing the Node name.

After this selection process, the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id` annotation is added / updated as necessary to reflect the selected BGP router ID.

> ## Usage examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Example Usage
```

### Combined Advertisements of Service, Pod, and Egress IPs

> In this example, we will advertise ClusterIP and LoadBalancerIP types of Service IPs, Pod CIDRs, and Egress IPs from the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, we will advertise Service IPs of types ClusterIP and LoadBalancerIP, along with Pod CIDRs and Egress IPs from the
```

selected Nodes to multiple remote BGP peers.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: advertise-all-ips
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:
      ipTypes:
        - ClusterIP

>         - LoadBalancerIP

Reviewer 3: ditto

    pod: {}
    egress: {}
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.77.200
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
    - address: 192.168.77.201
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
```

> ### Advertise Egress IPs to external BGP peers with more than one hops

Reviewer 3: more than one hop

In this example, we configure the BGPPolicy to advertise Egress IPs from selected Nodes to a remote BGP peer located
multiple hops away from the cluster. It's crucial to set the `multihopTTL` to a value equal to or greater than the
number of hops, allowing BGP packets to traverse multiple hops to reach the peer.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: advertise-all-egress-ips
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    egress: {}
  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.78.201
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
      multihopTTL: 2
```

## Limitations

> - The routes received from remote BGP peers will not be installed. Therefore, you must ensure that the path from Pods

Reviewer 3: is it "the path from Pods" or the "path from Nodes"?

Author: It should be `Nodes`.

### LocalASN

The `localASN` field defines the Autonomous System Number (ASN) that the local BGP process uses. The available private
ASN range is `64512-65535`. The field is mandatory.

### ListenPort

The `listenPort` field specifies the port on which the BGP process listens. The default value is 179. The valid port
range is `1-65535`.

### Advertisements

The `advertisements` field configures which IPs are advertised to BGP peers.

- `pod`: Specifies how to advertise Pod IPs. The Node IPAM Pod CIDRs will be advertised by setting `pod:{}`. A Node will
  only advertise its local Pod CIDR. Note that Antrea Flexible IPAM is not yet supported.
- `egress`: Specifies how to advertise Egress IPs. All Egress IPs will be advertised by setting `egress:{}`. A Node will
  only advertise Egress IPs which are local (i.e, assigned to the Node).
- `service`: Specifies how to advertise Service IPs. The `ipTypes` field lists the types of Service IPs to be advertised,
  which can include `ClusterIP`, `ExternalIP`, and `LoadBalancerIP`.
  - All Nodes can advertise all ClusterIPs, respecting `internalTrafficPolicy`. If `internalTrafficPolicy` is set to

>     `Local`, a Node will only advertise ClusterIPs with at least one local Endpoint.

Reviewer 4: Right, I thought about this and didn't figure out a better implementation. I think in practice users will only advertise ClusterIPs when they don't have any ExternalIPs and LoadBalancerIPs, and they intend to reduce costs and improve performance by setting the internal traffic policy to local, then it seems fine to only advertise from Nodes that have local Pods to achieve the same goals for external traffic.

Besides, I suppose making external-to-clusterIP traffic not enforce internalTrafficPolicy would impact Antrea Proxy's implementation a lot.

>     `Local`, a Node will only advertise ClusterIPs with at least one local Endpoint.

Reviewer 3: > I suppose making external-to-clusterIP traffic not enforce internalTrafficPolicy would impact Antrea Proxy's implementation a lot.

makes sense

  - All Nodes can advertise all ExternalIPs and LoadBalancerIPs, respecting `externalTrafficPolicy`. If
    `externalTrafficPolicy` is set to `Local`, a Node will only advertise IPs with at least one local Endpoint.

### BGPPeers

The `bgpPeers` field lists the BGP peers to which the advertisements are sent.

- `address`: The IP address of the BGP peer.
- `asn`: The Autonomous System Number of the BGP peer.
- `port`: The port number on which the BGP peer listens. The default value is 179.
- `multihopTTL`: The Time To Live (TTL) value used in BGP packets sent to the BGP peer, with a range of 1 to 255.
  The default value is 1.
- `gracefulRestartTimeSeconds`: Specifies how long the BGP peer waits for the BGP session to re-establish after a
  restart before deleting stale routes, with a range of 1 to 3600 seconds. The default value is 120 seconds.

## BGP router ID

> The BGP router identifier (ID) is a 4-byte field that is usually set to an IPv4 address. Antrea uses the following

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The BGP router identifier (ID) is a 4-byte field that is usually represented as an IPv4 address. Antrea uses the following
```

steps to choose the BGP router ID:

> 1. If the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id` annotation is present on the Node and its value is a valid 32-bit integer, we

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. If the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id` annotation is present on the Node and its value is a valid IPv4 address string, we
```

   will use the provided value.
2. Otherwise, for an IPv4-only or dual-stack Kubernetes cluster, the Node's IPv4 address (assigned to the transport
   interface) is used.

> 3. Otherwise, for IPv6-only clusters, a 32-bit integer will be generated by hashing the Node name. After this selection

Reviewer 3: Otherwise, for IPv6-only clusters, a 32-bit integer will be generated by hashing the Node name, then converted to the string representation of an IPv4 address.

   process, the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id` annotation is added / updated as necessary to reflect the selected BGP

>    router ID.

Reviewer 3: The text which starts with "After this selection..." should not be part of the list item, it should be a new paragraph.

  The default value is 1.
- `gracefulRestartTimeSeconds`: Specifies how long the BGP peer waits for the BGP session to re-establish after a
  restart before deleting stale routes, with a range of 1 to 3600 seconds. The default value is 120 seconds.

## BGP router ID

The BGP router identifier (ID) is a 4-byte field that is usually represented as an IPv4 address. Antrea uses the following
steps to choose the BGP router ID:

1. If the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id` annotation is present on the Node and its value is a valid IPv4 address string,
   we will use the provided value.
2. Otherwise, for an IPv4-only or dual-stack Kubernetes cluster, the Node's IPv4 address (assigned to the transport
   interface) is used.
3. Otherwise, for IPv6-only clusters, a 32-bit integer will be generated by hashing the Node name, then converted to the
   string representation of an IPv4 address.

After this selection process, the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id` annotation is added / updated as necessary to reflect
the selected BGP router ID.

## BGP Authentication

BGP authentication ensures that BGP sessions are established and maintained only with legitimate peers. Antrea supports

> BGP authentication by leveraging a Kubernetes Secret, `antrea-bgp-passwords`, to store authentication passwords.

Reviewer 3: For the second sentence,  I suggest:

> Users can provide authentication passwords for the different BGP peering sessions by storing them in a Kubernetes secret. The secret must be defined in the same Namespace as Antrea (`kube-system` by default) and must be named `antrea-bgp-passwords`.

By default, this Secret is not created, and BGP authentication is considered unconfigured for all BGP peers. If the

> Secret is created like the following example, each entry should be a key that is a concatenated string of the BGP peer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Secret is created like in the following example, each entry should have a key that is the concatenated string of the BGP peer
```

> IP address and ASN (e.g., `192.168.77.100-65000`, `2001:db8::1-65000` in the following example), with the value being

Reviewer 3: remove "in the following example"

the password for that BGP peer. If a key for a BGP peer does not exist in the Secret, the peer is considered unconfigured

> for that one.

Reviewer 3: For the last sentence:

> If a given BGP peer does not have a corresponding key in the Secret data, then authentication is considered disabled for that peer.

Service IPs, Pod IPs, and Egress IPs to remote BGP peers, facilitating the integration of Kubernetes workloads with an
external BGP-enabled network.

## Prerequisites

BGPPolicy was introduced in Antrea v2.1 as an alpha feature. A feature gate, `BGPPolicy`, must be enabled on antrea-agent
in the `antrea-config` ConfigMap for the feature to work, like the following:

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: antrea-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  antrea-agent.conf: |
    featureGates:
      BGPPolicy: true
```

## The BGPPolicy resource

A BGPPolicy in Kubernetes is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) object.

The following manifest creates a BGPPolicy object. It will start a BGP process with ASN `64512`, listening on port `179`,
on Nodes labeled with `bgp=enabled`. The process will advertise ClusterIPs, LoadBalancerIPs, and ExternalIPs to a BGP
peer at IP address `192.168.77.200`, which has ASN `65001` and listens on port `179`:

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: example-bgp-policy
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:

>       ipTypes: [ClusterIP, ExternalIP, LoadBalancerIP]

Reviewer 4: ditto, we should at least remove ClusterIP.

Author: Done

  bgpPeers:
    - address: 192.168.77.200
      asn: 65001
      port: 179
```

### NodeSelector

The `nodeSelector` field selects which Kubernetes Nodes the BGPPolicy applies to based on the Node labels. The field is
mandatory.

**Note**: If multiple BGPPolicy objects select the same Node, the one with the earliest creation time will be chosen
as the effective BGPPolicy.

### LocalASN

The `localASN` field defines the Autonomous System Number (ASN) that the local BGP process uses. The available private
ASN range is `64512-65535`. The field is mandatory.

### ListenPort

The `listenPort` field specifies the port on which the BGP process listens. The default value is 179. The valid port
range is `1-65535`.

### Advertisements

The `advertisements` field configures which IPs are advertised to BGP peers.

- `pod`: Specifies how to advertise Pod IPs. The Node IPAM Pod CIDRs will be advertised by setting `pod:{}`. Note that

>   IPs allocated by Antrea Flexible IPAM are not yet supported..

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  IPs allocated by Antrea Flexible IPAM are not yet supported.
```

just a typo

Author: Done

  - All Nodes can advertise all ExternalIPs and LoadBalancerIPs, respecting `externalTrafficPolicy`. If
    `externalTrafficPolicy` is set to `Local`, a Node will only advertise IPs with at least one local Endpoint.

### BGPPeers

The `bgpPeers` field lists the BGP peers to which the advertisements are sent.

- `address`: The IP address of the BGP peer.
- `asn`: The Autonomous System Number of the BGP peer.
- `port`: The port number on which the BGP peer listens. The default value is 179.
- `multihopTTL`: The Time To Live (TTL) value used in BGP packets sent to the BGP peer, with a range of 1 to 255.
  The default value is 1.
- `gracefulRestartTimeSeconds`: Specifies how long the BGP peer waits for the BGP session to re-establish after a
  restart before deleting stale routes, with a range of 1 to 3600 seconds. The default value is 120 seconds.

## BGP router ID

The BGP router identifier (ID) is a 4-byte field that is usually represented as an IPv4 address. Antrea uses the following
steps to choose the BGP router ID:

1. If the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id` annotation is present on the Node and its value is a valid IPv4 address string,

>    we will use the provided value.

Reviewer 4: This doesn't match the implementation which always uses Node IPv4 when there is one.

Author: Thanks for reminding me about that. I have corrected it.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for catching this @tnqn. I'm partially to blame here, as I suggested the previous wording without double-checking the implementation.
I don't want to block the BGP PRs for this, but the implementation doesn't make much sense to me. I see no reason why the annotation should not be honored in the IPv6 case. If anything, that just creates confusion. [RFC 6286](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6286) relaxes the definition of the BGP router ID, and I don't think we need to "force" the ID to be the Node IP in the IPv4 case.

Reviewer 3: (I am perfectly fine having this discussion and potentially making this change post v2.1 release btw)

Reviewer 4: @antoninbas I agree with you. I wondered why not to handle IPv4/IPv6 consitently but didn't want to ask for a change in the implementation given the tight schedule. We could unify them in 2.2.

Reviewer 3: I created https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/issues/6550 yesterday to track this

2. Otherwise, for an IPv4-only or dual-stack Kubernetes cluster, the Node's IPv4 address (assigned to the transport
   interface) is used.
3. Otherwise, for IPv6-only clusters, a 32-bit integer will be generated by hashing the Node name, then converted to the
   string representation of an IPv4 address.

> After this selection process, the `node.antrea.io/bgp-router-id` annotation is added / updated as necessary to reflect

Reviewer 4: ditto, I think only IPv6 updates the annotation.

the selected BGP router ID.

## BGP Authentication

BGP authentication ensures that BGP sessions are established and maintained only with legitimate peers. Users can provide

> authentication passwords for the different BGP peering sessions by storing them in a Kubernetes secret. The secret must
> be defined in the same Namespace as Antrea (kube-system by default) and must be named `antrea-bgp-passwords`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authentication passwords for different BGP peering sessions by storing them in a Kubernetes Secret. The Secret must
be defined in the same Namespace as Antrea (`kube-system` by default) and must be named `antrea-bgp-passwords`.
```

Author: Done

By default, this Secret is not created, and BGP authentication is considered unconfigured for all BGP peers. If the
Secret is created like in the following example, each entry should have a key that is the concatenated string of the BGP
peer IP address and ASN (e.g., `192.168.77.100-65000`, `2001:db8::1-65000`), with the value being the password for that
BGP peer. If a given BGP peer does not have a corresponding key in the Secret data, then authentication is considered
disabled for that peer.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: antrea-bgp-passwords
  namespace: kube-system
stringData:
  192.168.77.100-65000: "password"
  2001:db8::1-65000: "password"
type: Opaque
```

## Example Usage

### Combined Advertisements of Service, Pod, and Egress IPs

In this example, we will advertise Service IPs of types ClusterIP and LoadBalancerIP, along with Pod CIDRs and Egress
IPs from the selected Nodes to multiple remote BGP peers.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: BGPPolicy
metadata:
  name: advertise-all-ips
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      bgp: enabled
  localASN: 64512
  listenPort: 179
  advertisements:
    service:

>       ipTypes: [ClusterIP, LoadBalancerIP]

Reviewer 4: I think we should remove ClusterIP to make the example more reasonable. Normally there is no reason to advertise ClusterIP when the cluster has LoadBalancer enabled.

Author: Done
